## ActionMap

#### <a name="org.jspresso.framework.view.action.ActionMap"></a>ActionMap

+ **Full name** : [`org.jspresso.framework.view.action.ActionMap`](http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/action/ActionMap.html)



An action map is used to structure a set of actions. The actions are not
 directly registered but are placed into action lists that in turn are
 assigned to the action map. Action maps can be merged together, i.e. an
 action map can have multiple parent action maps. In that case, Action lists
 that have the same name are merged together. The way action maps are rendered
 depends on the place where they are declared. For instance an action map that
 is assigned to a view might be rendered as a toolbar with each action list
 separated into its own group. On the other hand, an action map declared on
 the frontend controller might be represented as a menu bar on the main
 application frame.



<table>
<caption>ActionMap properties</caption>
<colgroup>
<col width="33%" />
<col width="66%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Property</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p><strong>actionLists</strong></p><p><code>List&#x200B;&lt;&#x200B;<a href="http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/action/ActionList.html">Action&#x200B;List</a>&#x200B;&gt;&#x200B;</code></p></td>
<td><p>Assigns the action lists that are directly owned by this action map. The
 action lists that will actually be rendered will be the merge of the
 directly owned action lists and of the parent action maps. Action lists
 that have the same name are merged together and into a merged action list,
 local actions will replace parent actions with the same name.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p><strong>grantedRoles</strong></p><p><code>Collection&#x200B;&lt;&#x200B;String&#x200B;&gt;&#x200B;</code></p></td>
<td><p>Assigns the roles that are authorized to use this action map. It supports
 &quot;<b>!</b>&quot; prefix to negate the role(s). Whenever the user is not
 granted sufficient privileges, the action map is simply not displayed at
 runtime. Setting the collection of granted roles to <code>null</code>
 (default value) disables role based authorization, then access is granted
 to anyone.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p><strong>parentActionMaps</strong></p><p><code>List&#x200B;&lt;&#x200B;<a href="http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/action/ActionMap.html">Action&#x200B;Map</a>&#x200B;&gt;&#x200B;</code></p></td>
<td><p>Assigns the parent action maps. The action lists that will actually be
 rendered will be the merge of the directly owned action lists and of the
 parent action maps. Action lists that have the same name are merged
 together and into a merged action list, local actions will replace parent
 actions with the same name.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p><strong>permId</strong></p><p><code>String</code></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the permanent identifier to this application element. Permanent
 identifiers are used by different framework parts, like dynamic security or
 record/replay controllers to uniquely identify an application element.
 Permanent identifiers are generated by the SJS build based on the element
 id but must be explicitly set if Spring XML is used.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p><strong>renderingOptions</strong></p><p><code><a href="http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/util/gui/ERenderingOptions.html">ERendering&#x200B;Options</a></code></p></td>
<td><p>Indicates how the actions should be rendered. This is either a value of the
 <code>ERenderingOptions</code> enum or its equivalent string representation
 :
 <ul>
 <li><code>LABEL_ICON</code> for label and icon</li>
 <li><code>LABEL</code> for label only</li>
 <li><code>ICON</code> for icon only.</li>
 </ul>
 <p>
 Default value is <code>null</code>, i.e. determined from outside, e.g. the
 view factory.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

---


