## BasicTreeLevelDescriptor

#### <a name="org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicTreeLevelDescriptor"></a>BasicTreeLevelDescriptor

+ **Full name** : [`org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicTreeLevelDescriptor`](http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/descriptor/basic/BasicTreeLevelDescriptor.html)
+ **Sub-types** : [`BasicCompositeTreeLevelDescriptor`](#org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicCompositeTreeLevelDescriptor), [`BasicSimpleTreeLevelDescriptor`](#org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicSimpleTreeLevelDescriptor)



This is the base descriptor for all tree levels. A tree level is a collection
 of sibling nodes that belong to the same formal collection (usually a
 component collection property). This base descriptor does not accept nested
 subtrees so it is only used to describe a collection of leaf nodes. If you
 need to describe intermediary tree levels, yous will use one of the 2
 subtypes :
 <ul>
 <li><i>BasicSimpleTreeLevelDescriptor</i> to define a collection of tree
 nodes that accept a single subtree</li>
 <li><i>BasicCompositeTreeLevelDescriptor</i> to define a collection of tree
 nodes that accept a list of subtrees</li>
 </ul>
 Defining a tree level is mainly a matter of defining its representation as an
 individual list of components (i.e. the <code>nodeGroupDescriptor</code>
 property).



<table>
<caption>BasicTreeLevelDescriptor properties</caption>
<colgroup>
<col width="33%" />
<col width="66%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Property</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p><strong>grantedRoles</strong></p><p><code>Collection&#x200B;&lt;&#x200B;String&#x200B;&gt;&#x200B;</code></p></td>
<td><p>Assigns the roles that are authorized to use this subtree. It supports
 &quot;<b>!</b>&quot; prefix to negate the role(s). Whenever the user is not
 granted sufficient privileges, the subtree is simply hidden. Setting the
 collection of granted roles to <code>null</code> (default value) disables
 role based authorization on the node group level. The framework then checks
 for the model roles authorizations and will apply the same restrictions. If
 both view and model granted roles collections are <code>null</code>, then
 access is granted to anyone.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p><strong>nodeGroupDescriptor</strong></p><p><code><a href="http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/descriptor/IListViewDescriptor.html">IList&#x200B;View&#x200B;Descriptor</a></code></p></td>
<td><p>Describes the collection of sibling nodes (node group) as a if it were a
 list view. This is how you instruct Jspresso the type of the components
 that are used as model behind the tree nodes and which model property is
 used to compute the node labels. Most of the other properties defined on
 the node group descriptor itself are ignored (font, color, selection
 action, ...) since a tree group is not a "real" view but just a mean of
 defining a subtree. All these properties that are ignored on the tree group
 can be defined on the tree view itself.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p><strong>permId</strong></p><p><code>String</code></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the permanent identifier to this application element. Permanent
 identifiers are used by different framework parts, like dynamic security or
 record/replay controllers to uniquely identify an application element.
 Permanent identifiers are generated by the SJS build based on the element
 id but must be explicitly set if Spring XML is used.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

---


#### <a name="org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicCompositeTreeLevelDescriptor"></a>BasicCompositeTreeLevelDescriptor

+ **Full name** : [`org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicCompositeTreeLevelDescriptor`](http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/descriptor/basic/BasicCompositeTreeLevelDescriptor.html)
+ **Super-type** : [`BasicTreeLevelDescriptor`](#org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicTreeLevelDescriptor)



This descriptor is used to describe a collection of sibling nodes that each
 nest multiple subtrees. The children subtrees are each placed under an
 intermediary grouping node. For instance, given a composite tree level
 mapping a collection of <i>A</i>s and whose children are 2 tree levels
 mapping respectively a collection <i>Y</i>s and <i>Z</i>s, the tree would
 look like :

 <pre>
 parent
   <b>A</b>-1
     <b>collY</b>
       <b>Y</b>-1.1
       <b>Y</b>-1.2
     <b>collZ</b>
       <b>Z</b>-1.1
       <b>Z</b>-1.2
       <b>Z</b>-1.3
   <b>A</b>-2
     <b>collY</b>
       <b>Y</b>-2.1
       <b>Y</b>-2.2
       <b>Y</b>-2.3
     <b>collZ</b>
       <b>Z</b>-2.1
   <b>A</b>-3
     <b>collY</b>
       <b>Y</b>-3.1
       <b>Y</b>-3.2
     <b>collZ</b>
       <b>Z</b>-3.1
       <b>Z</b>-3.2
 </pre>

 You can notice the intermediary grouping nodes that are installed to visually
 separate the 2 collection families (<i>Y</i> and <i>Z</i>).



<table>
<caption>BasicCompositeTreeLevelDescriptor properties</caption>
<colgroup>
<col width="33%" />
<col width="66%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Property</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p><strong>childrenDescriptors</strong></p><p><code>List&#x200B;&lt;&#x200B;<a href="http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/descriptor/ITreeLevelDescriptor.html">ITree&#x200B;Level&#x200B;Descriptor</a>&#x200B;&gt;&#x200B;</code></p></td>
<td><p>Assigns the list children tree level descriptors. A <code>null</code> value
 (default) makes this tree level a leaf tree level and is strictly
 equivalent to declaring a <code>BasicTreeLevelDescriptor</code> instead.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

---


#### <a name="org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicSimpleTreeLevelDescriptor"></a>BasicSimpleTreeLevelDescriptor

+ **Full name** : [`org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicSimpleTreeLevelDescriptor`](http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/descriptor/basic/BasicSimpleTreeLevelDescriptor.html)
+ **Super-type** : [`BasicTreeLevelDescriptor`](#org.jspresso.framework.view.descriptor.basic.BasicTreeLevelDescriptor)
+ **Sub-types** : 



This descriptor is used to describe a collection of sibling nodes that only
 nest a single subtree. The child subtree is directly placed under each node
 without any intermediary grouping node. For instance, given a simple tree
 level mapping a collection of <i>A</i>s and whose child is a tree level
 mapping a collection of <i>B</i>s, the tree would look like :

 <pre>
 parent
   <b>A</b>-1
     <b>B</b>-1.1
     <b>B</b>-1.2
     <b>B</b>-1.3
   <b>A</b>-2
     <b>B</b>-2.1
   <b>A</b>-3
     <b>B</b>-3.1
     <b>B</b>-3.2
 </pre>



<table>
<caption>BasicSimpleTreeLevelDescriptor properties</caption>
<colgroup>
<col width="33%" />
<col width="66%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Property</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p><strong>childDescriptor</strong></p><p><code><a href="http://www.jspresso.org/external/maven-site/apidocs/org/jspresso/framework/view/descriptor/ITreeLevelDescriptor.html">ITree&#x200B;Level&#x200B;Descriptor</a></code></p></td>
<td><p>Assigns the single child tree level descriptor. A <code>null</code> value
 (default) makes this tree level a leaf tree level and is strictly
 equivalent to declaring a <code>BasicTreeLevelDescriptor</code> instead.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

---


